These rules are subject to change at any time. It is your responsibility to keep up to date with the rules. Last update: March 19th, 2017.
These rules are considered your warning. Breaking the rules will result in your punishment. Ignorance is not an excuse.
If a staff member is breaking rules, gather any evidence you can, make a staff report thread on the forums.
 General Rules.png 

(Section A)
General rules are in effect at all times during your time on the server
1. The staff have the final say in all situations. Do not argue with them. If you feel wronged in any way by a staff member, file a staff report on the forums.
2. Use !report to receive assistance from a staff member or make a player report on the forums. Do not submit false or spam reports or you will be warned. Do not use @ chat to report players.
3. No one is to be harassed in our community under any circumstances.
4. You are responsible for your account no matter who uses it or who tells you how to use it. If your friend, family member, or even a person who stole your account do anything malicious while using your account YOU are held accountable.
5. Do not set your name and/or job to anything obscene, vulgar, sexually explicit or crude. You also may not impersonate ANY user current or otherwise.
6. Do not use cheats or third party programs.
7. You may not use an alternate account to avoid a ban. This will will result in your ban being extended. The alt account will also be banned.
8. Do not disrespect other players out of character or in-character using out of character information.
9. We do not tolerate racist or homophobic remarks and is bannable on a second offence.
10. using ANY form of the "hard R" will result in a 3 day ban.
11. Do not spam voice communications. (Certain exceptions made for hobo classes.)
12. Do not spam the camera swep.
13. Do not break rules to enforce rules. You will be held accountable for your actions.
14. Do not leave the server to avoid being stolen from, avoid punishment, or return the property that has already been stolen from you. Do not disconnect from the server during an ongoing raid on your base until the raid is finished.
15. All default laws are in effect with or without a mayor
16. Do not raid bait or bait out any other PVP confrontations. This will be regarded as Fail RP and if any deaths occur because of this scenario you will receive another warning for random Deathmatch.  Raid Baiting includes using chat as well as placing provoking text screens on your base encouraging players to raid you.
17. You may not kill players for disrespect.
18. If you are resisting arrest you may be killed at the discretion of the CP. For more information, see the "General Government Rules" section.
19. The roads may NEVER be built on by any class excluding CP with checkpoints and minor buildings from hobo classes. Read job specific rules to find out more.
20. You may not make drugs or use counterfeiting machines in public. You must make/use them in a base, And hide them from general view. (covered further in basing rules)
21. Do not spam knocking sounds with your keys.
22. Disabling and shooting cameras/scanners without a valid RP reason is not allowed.
23. Hiding valuables outside the map is a bannable offense.
24. You may only place a tip jar inside your base/building (no random jars on the streets)
25. You may not spam any tip jar with tips
26. You may not sell in-game money for real life currency or Steam items.
27. Scamming a player will result in a ban.
 Advert and Chat.png 

( Section B )
Chats covered in this is ooc, (/a) advert (/ad), and admin (@)
1. Do not spam any form of chat.
2. Only use adverts to advertise (Selling of goods and services). Do not use OOC chat for anything that should be adverted, do not use advert chat for anything that should be in OOC chat.
3. Do not swear excessively or use any type of offensive slurs.
4. Do not use crude or sexually explicit language.
5. Advertising illegal activities EXCLUDING MUGGINGS AND KIDNAPPINGS gives the CP and SWAT permission to issue a warrant/want for your arrest.
6. You must use /advert to indicated the start of a mugging, or a kidnapping. YOU CANNOT BE WANTED FOR MAKING THESE ADVERTS.  Ex: "/advert MUGGING! Drop 5k now or you will pay in blood!" "/advert KIDNAPPING! You are bound and gagged! Come with me!"
7. You must notify the staff of your raid attempt by using "@" chat. If you are raiding a government building, you must specify which building you are raiding. Ex: "@ RAID STARTED!" "@ BANK RAID STARTED!" If there is no staff online at the moment when you are about to raid you must call it in advert. Ex: "/ad Raid Started!" You must use "@" chat to end your raid.
8. You must advertise the usage of any lethal grenades. Ex: "/advert GRENADE OUT!"
9. You may advert “Not a threat” if you are in harm's way in a raid. You may only call this in your own base. If you call "not a threat" you are no longer any part of the raid, interfering with the raid in any way is failrp.


 Prop Related rules.png 

(Section C)
Covers all building related rules
I. Building Rules
1. Do not trap other players in bases, or prop builds.
2. Do not use props to hold entities out of reach of players.
3. Do not build any obscene or inappropriate structures.
4. Do not build in public unless your job's rules allow it.
5. Do not build anything that is not accessible by a natural path (no player-made catwalks on walls, etc).
6. You may not build any false entrances into your base.
7. Do not block off entire areas with props. If your job allows you to build in public, do not obstruct frequently accessed areas
8. Raiders must have enough space for two players to move and raise their weapons. Your base should not force raiders into any awkward situations to be able to break in. That means no crouch tunnels, or props for players to jump over. You may never build a meat tunnel. A meat tunnel is defined as a long and narrow tunnel in which a player cannot turn 360 degrees without lowering his weapon, and, a tunnel in which only one person can fit at a time.
9. You may not stack props inside each other in a way that makes them not able to move.
10. You must never prop block block any of your bases entrances. If you use props on an entrance, they MUST be a fading door. They must also be spaced far enough away from the world door that two players will be able to fit inside the gap. This allows the players to attack both doors before one closes on them.
11. You may put up a building sign to avoid being raided while building. However you must not have any valuables in your base at that time or you will be warned/banned by a staff member.
12. You may put up a sign that says RP Base, having an RP Base means that you do not have valuables and your base is only intended to be made for RP ONLY. Raiders will not raid your base if it has this sign.
13. You are allowed kill slots in your base. Kill slot gaps must have at least a size of  2x2 cube stacked vertically and to open the slot you must use a toggled button.
14. Any tunnel that you have in your base may only have two direct turns in order to reach the exit. You may not build a maze. You may not have disorientating/flashing/water properties on any part of your base. (Aside from Entity holders)
15. The wireframe material may only be used for windows or fading doors.
16. A player may build a second floor for aesthetic value. Valuables may be stored there however the second floor may not be used for pvp in any way.


II. Keypad & Button Rules
1. All keypads must have a hold length of at least 5 seconds.
2. Buttons and keypads should be on or very near the fading door or window. random or duplicate buttons or keypads are not allowed. One button to one fading window or door.
3. Do not abuse fading doors during a raid with a button or by using the key assigned to the fading door.
4. Your buttons for kill slots MUST be on toggle mode.
5. Your buttons and keypads must be fully accessible.
III. Fading Door Rules
1. Fading Door Limits
* Maximum 5 fading doors per base
* Maximum 2 per room or world door into the base
1. Fading Door Windows do not count towards the these counts.
2. Do not place two fading doors back to back; they must be at least two player's width apart. This means two players must be able to turn 360 degrees without their guns lowering.
3. Do not place a fading door right on either side of a “real world door”. There must be at least a two person size box around the door.
4. Elevator entrances are considered "real world doors". There must be at least a two person size box around the door.
5. Fading doors MUST be a different color/material then the remainder of your props, and must be clearly visible.
6. You may not hide fading windows behind opaque props
7. You may not disguise fading windows with other seethrough props


IV. "World Door" Rules
1. The player who owns the front door to a base owns the entire base.
2. You must sell the doors to a building if you are not using it.
3. Do not repeatedly open and close a door to block a player from accessing it.
4. You may only own doors to one building at a time.(unless your job allows it). When claiming an entire area as a mob boss, or group leader may own all world doors in the claimed area.
5. You may sell ownership of a building if you plan to log out. You may not however run around pretending to be a retail tycoon and buy up all the bases and sell them off to the highest bidder.
V. Camera Rules
1. Do not use cameras to see into other players' bases.
2. Do not block cameras with props or entities.
3. Cameras must be on the walls of your base in accessible way.
4. Cameras must be clearly visible to a raider and must be able to be shot. (damaged)
5. Raiders cannot use cameras to assist them in a raid.


VI. Text Screen and Loitering Rules
1. Do not place text screens on or in other people's bases without permission.
2. Remove any text screens you are no longer using.
3. Kill On Sight (KOS) signs are only allowed within the confines of your base. Your KOS sign may only apply to players that enter the confines of your world base.
4. Your KOS sign may not have ridiculous restrictions or limitations. (KOS for government only is not considered ridiculous)
5. You are allowed a Loitering Sign. The sign must say “Loitering for 15+ seconds is KOS” and/or along those lines.


VII. Prop Properties (Visibility, Collision, Materialization, etc)
1. Do not use or create invisible props.
2. You may not use no-collided props unless used for an AFK Box. AFK Boxes are small player sized no collided props used to prevent pickpocketing in bases while AFK. you may only use afk boxes to afk in.
3. All one way props are banned from any use.
4. You may not use  Prop Properties to prop minge. (Using any of the properties such as “Super Bouncy” and “Metal Bouncy”, etc to unfreeze and create floating/flying props.)
5. You may not use Solid Dark colors on props.












 Server Activity.png 

(Section D)
Covers all in-game events


I. Grouping & Basing Rules
1. To group/base all players must be in a party together. You may have multiple parties per base. You can create a party by typing “!party”. The party names should be similar.
2. Members of the Government may only group or base with other members of the Government. Members of the Government may only base at government buildings. They may not own their own property.
3. Criminals may only base with other criminal classes. Guards, medics and other hireables if hired are excluded from this rule.
4. You may defend members of your gang/party from attacks and pickpockets.
5. You may kill trespassers as long if they know they are not welcome. Either build a KOS sign or tell them to leave.
6. You may not base on top of a naturally inaccessible area.
7. Members of the Government may not work with criminal classes. However, they may hire (if corrupt) bodyguards and hitmen to assist them with their work.
8. you cannot connect two bases together (mob boss excluded). The buildings connected must be next to each other. You may not connect buildings a street apart. You may not connect them by building on the street. (Mob Bosses included)
9. Gangs may not base with opposing gangs. (Syndicate may not base with Mafia).
10. Illegal valuables clearly visible from outside the base is considered raid bait and is warnable.
11. If you do not wish to use a loitering sign you may also warn the loitering players in or very near your base to leave with an advert warning and give them a 15+ seconds chance before they are KOS.
II. Raiding Rules
1. If you leave the raid area you must call raid over in /ad your raid is over
2. If you are defending your base in a raid you may not defend your base from outside of the raid area.You may not use lethal grenades while defending.
3. While raiding you may not kill anyone outside the base unless in self defence.
4. Players who advert not a threat may not be killed in a raid unless they interfere with the raid.
5. Building must be halted if you are being raided.
6. Before raiding, you must notify staff in @ chat that you are raiding. You are not obligated to mention where you are raiding unless it is a government building. If there is no staff on you MUST use /ad to call a raid.
7. You may not raid someone with a building sign or an RP base sign.
8. You may not build inside your base while you are being raided.
9. You do not have to be in the same party to raid a base.
10. Your raid must only last 10 minutes.
11. You must wait 15 minutes before raiding the same base. You must wait 3 minutes before raiding any other base.
12. You may Counter Raid, While counter raiding you must actively participate in the raid, meaning you must fight into the base and continue fighting. You may not counter raid to just kill the enemy raiders, you must finish the raid and actively continue fighting. Counter raids follow the same rules as regular raids do. You may not Counter Raid Government buildings.
13. Government classes are the only class exempt from the 3 minute timer, however the 15 minute timer stays in place.
14. Government classes may break NLR only during raids on Government buildings.
15. You cannot call "Raid Over" inside a building, you must make an attempt to escape.
16. When you call "Raid Start," you must call it from outside the base (This includes the Bank and the PD) You cannot wait inside the Armory for 3 people to become CP classes.


III. Mugging Rules
1. When mugging, you must advert the mug.
2. You may not mug Hobos, CP, SWAT (SWAT CC’s), or the Mayor's Guard.
3. You may not mug in public areas that are frequented by other players. You must mug in a secluded areas like alleyways. If there are people around the area you may not mug, if you do it will be considered Fail RP.
4. You are allowed to mug players for a maximum of $7000
5. You may only mug players for money. You may not tell them to drop items.
6. You must be clear on who you are mugging, and give the player time to realize they are being mugged.
7. When mugging you must make your demands clear, in you /ad statement
8. When mugging, you must give players 15 seconds to comply with your terms. You may kill them if they fail to pay within this time frame. The timer starts from your /ad in chat.
9. You may not disallow players to look around while mugging them.
10. You may only mug one person at a time.
11. If you mug with a group, only one player may demand payment.
12. You may not kill a player if they pay the amount you are demanding.
13. You, or your group, may only mug the same person once every 10 minutes.
14. You may resist a mugging if you are currently holding a weapon. If you are not, you may only resist using a pistol.
15. You may not mug a mayor in grace.




IV. Kidnapping Rules
1. You are allowed to (illegally) kidnap a player, forcing them to comply with your (non-ridiculous) rules and follow you to your base.
2. You may only kidnap one player at a time. (No matter how many people you have) This does not mean that you can't have multiple people kidnapped in your base, but that you can only bring one person back at a time!
3. You may hold a player hostage and charge ransom for their release, or (illegally) auction them off to other players. You may be wanted for using /advert to auction a player.You may also execute the hostage if no one is willing to buy the kidnapped player after 5 minutes.
4. You may not force a player to RDM or FailRP or break any General rules.
5. you may resist a kidnapping if you have 100hp. Kidnappers may damage players at the start of a kidnap they may not instantly kill the victim.
6. You must advert kidnap, and have a gun out.
7. You may only kidnap for a maximum of 10 minutes.
8. You may not kidnap an afk player.
9. You have to wait 30 minutes before re-kidnapping a player you previously kidnapped. Even if you die, you still must wait 30 minutes.
10. If you have acquired a gun you may kill your kidnapper(s) and call for help.
11. You may kill your attacks if you already have a gun out, or a pistol if you don’t have one out.
12. You may not pickpocket you victim.
13. You may kill a kidnapped player if they don't follow your orders. [Go to FeaRP Rules]
14. After kidnapping someone you or your party may not kill them for any KOS Signs, you may however kill them if they prompt you by disrespecting in character, ignore your non-ridiculous orders, attempt to escape, or 5 minutes after making an attempt to sell your victim no one wants to purchase them.
15. You may not kidnap with witnesses present, You may kidnap in public if the area is secluded.
16. You may not kidnap a mayor in grace.




V. Pickpocketing Rules
1. You may NOT pickpocket hobos.
2. You may not pickpocket AFK players.
3. You may not pickpocket at spawn.
4. You or your group may not attack or kill a player you or your group recently attempted to pickpocket, even if you are attacked in retaliation. Party members are not allowed to defend you from these retaliation attacks. This is an act of stealth, if you are caught, your only option is to run.
5. You may not set a hit one someone for retaliating to a pickpocket.
VI. Placing Hits Rules
1. You must have a real RP reason to place a hit on someone. If you are caught placing hits on people for things they did not do the person who placed the hit will be punished.                             Ex: "I want this player dead, he stole from me!" "I don't like the mayor and his frequent lockdowns!"
2. You must wait 3 minutes between accepting hits and 20 minutes between hits on the same player.
3. You may not place hits on players who killed you in a past life.
4. You may not trade hits with other hitmen. This includes one-way trades where only one hitman receives a trade from another. All Hitmen and similar jobs are included in this rule.
5. You may not ask other players to place a hit on an individual or any group of people.
VII. "Wanted" Rules
1. You must have a valid reason to issue or accept a search warrant or a warrant for a player's arrest.
2. When a player's "wanted" expires, you may not "re-want" them. However, if the player is seen doing an illegal activity again, you may re-want them.
3. You may not kill a player who has broken the law unless they are an immediate threat to others' lives. E.g. shooting at anyone.
4. If you are are wanted, you may not kill government jobs on sight, unless they are an immediate threat to you. (Trying to arrest/kill you.)
5. If you or a member of your group are wanted, you may kill players who try to arrest you or that group mate (having handcuffs out does not count. They must be actively trying to arrest you or your group mate).
6. If you are resisting arrest you may be killed at the discretion of the CP.
VIII. PD & Bank Vault Rules
1. Do not leave the doors to the PD or the jail cells open. (unless the cp is corrupt)
2. Only Government jobs may build in the PD.
3. When leading a PD/Bank raid, you must specify which you are raiding in @ or /ad chat.
4. You cannot raid the PD unless there are 3 CP/SWAT.
5. Cops may return to a Bank/PD Raid and disregard NLR.
6. No one can build within the bank vault and/or armory vault.
7. By default, the lobby of the PD is public. Going beyond the stairs, and through any doors inside the lobby of the PD is AOS by default. The mayor may make a law that makes the PD 100% private, in which case the lobby becomes AOS.


IX. War Rules
1. Gang Leaders may declare war on the opposing gang or the government. If the opposing team's leader accepts, or if the mayor accepts, war is initiated.
2. Leaders are the varying mob boss or the mayor or cp chief if a mayor is not currently elected.
3. During a war, members of each team may kill the other on sight.
4. No spawn camping.
5. The war will last 10 minutes, or until one of the leaders has died. At that point, the war is over and you must wait 30 minutes before initiating another war.
6. You may raid buildings to get to the leaders but you must still follow raiding rules.
7. Only Gang Members/Leaders and the Government may participate in wars.
X. Car Rules
1. You may only pick cars up with the physgun if  it is stuck.
2. Flinging Cars around randomly is not allowed.
3. Players may alt+e on the roofs of cars.
XI.Carjacking rules
1. You may only carjack every 5 minutes.
2. You Must advert a carjack
3. Once you have carjacked (and escaped) you must then advert who the owner of the car is. This must be completed within 2 minutes of your carjack. (you can include car ransom demands)
4. If you are caught carjacking you may not fight back, you have to run away. (similar to pickpocket rules)
5. You cannot respawn/store your car for 20 minutes if it has been carjacked. (from the carjackers first advert)
6. You may not carjack a party member's car.
7. Only specific jobs can carjack (check job specific rules)  
8. You may NOT carjack in the car parking lot spawning area.
9. You may not carjack a party member's car.
 Rules Specs.png 

(Section E)
Breaking any of these rules classifies as breaking its parent rule in Section A.


I. Death Match
1. You must have a valid RP reason for attacking or killing on someone.
2. You may defend yourself or your group if you or your group are being attacked or stolen from.
3. You or your group may kill players who refuse to leave you or your group alone after being warned three times to go away. The warns must be separated by at least 5 seconds These warnings must use /advert so there is a record of the warnings.
4. You or your group may not kill players even if they threaten you or your group's lives. You and your group must wait before they attack you or your group before defending your group or yourself. This does not apply to a criminal raid, or if a firearm is pulled out during a police chase.
5. You must give the Mayor a 10 minute grace period before killing them after they are elected.
6. As the mayor you cannot kill players within the 10 minute grace period unless you broadcast that your grace is over
7. You may only kill the Mayor as a Criminal job or if you are working for a criminal
8. You must have a valid RP reason to kill or place a hit on the Mayor.
9. If you are resisting arrest you may be killed at the discretion of CP.
10. Holding a weapon out does not count as a valid reason to KOS a player, unless the player is attacking you.
11. You must give an advert warning to a player that has smoked/flashed you. If the player continues to spam the grenades, you may either report them or, if there are currently not staff on, kill them.
12. Climb SWEPing a player is considered assault. (and is an arrestable offence)
II. New Life Rule
1. When you die, you instantly forget every player-related event that happened before your death.
2. You may not use information from your past life in your new life, excluding where your base is and keypad combinations.
3. You may not return to your area of death for 3 minutes. (even if the timer at the bottom of the screen disappears early, the NLR timer is still in effect.)
4. If you are killed during a raid, you may not return to the raid till NLR Timer is up and the raid is over.
5. CP, Swat, Swat CC’s, Mayor’s Bodyguard may break NLR during PD and Bank Raids ONLY.
III. Metagaming
1. You are not permitted to use information from OOC (out of character) while roleplaying. This includes OOC chat and any other means of receiving information other than through role playing. The sounds money printers make are excluded from this rule.
2. You do not know a player's job based on their character model, excluding Hobos and Government jobs.
3. You do not know a Hitman has accepted hit on a player, based upon the text above their head.
4. As a Government job, you do not understand the slang for selling illegal entities or activities. Ex: You will not understand that "a pizza" is a hit.
5. You may not use the information from a warrant that pops up on your screen as an indication of corruption. Only the mayor can use this information as indication of corruption.
6. It is metagaming to use the kill log in the top right of your screen to know who killed someone.
IV. Demotions
1. Do not demote people randomly or for false reasons.
2. You are allowed to demote for two reasons: for rule breaking in the absence of staff and for roleplay reasons (e.g., a corrupt CP).
3. Do not demote other players for breaking rules while a staff member is online. Talk to staff first! (You will be warned)
4. Do not immediately demote someone for breaking rules. Consider the circumstances beforehand and make 100% sure they are breaking rules.


V. Prop Minging
1. Do not block or trap players with props or entities.
2. Do not grab/throw props or entities and sling them around randomly.
3. Do not throw players around on props. Do not fly players around. Do not hoverboard players.
4. Using precision alignment tool to create teleporters or to gain access to areas that you wouldn't normally be able to access is a bannable offence
VI. Self-Supply
1. Do not change your job solely to supply you or your group with something from that job.
2. Do not drop any items exclusive to a job.
3. You may only Self Supply when there are no merchants online.
VII. Fail RP
1. You are not allowed to engage in role-play that the staff deems inappropriate to the roleplay the server is hosting. You may not roleplay as or engage in a roleplay of something obscene or otherwise inappropriate. (This includes sexual acts and offencive acts ie: 9/11, Holocaust, Direct Nazi roleplaying)
2. Do not randomly or excessively assault or insult other players.
3. You may not perform tasks your job was not designed to do.
4. You must perform your job's duties.
5. You may not betray your group. Government jobs are excluded from this rule when regarding Corruption.
6. Do not tell or ask other players to raid your own base.
7. When being attacked, mugged or kidnapped, you may not pursue your attacker. CP/SWAT/Mayor's Bodyguard are excluded from this rule.
8. You may not use or carry any weapons that are otherwise inaccessible by your job (medkits as a citizen, etc). Includes cc weapons.
9. You must have a valid RP reason to use your weapons.
10. You may not make drugs or use counterfeiting machines in public.
VIII. Fear RP
1. When your character's life is threatened, your character should act scared.
2. If you are being held at gunpoint, you may not pull out a weapon larger than a handgun.
3. You may attempt to run away if you are at 100+ health.
4. If you already have a large weapon out, you are allowed to use it in self-defense.
                                                         Laws.png 
(Section F)
The following laws are always in place, and may not be changed by the mayor.
1. Murder is illegal.
2. Shooting is illegal.
3. Assault is illegal.
4. Stealing is illegal.
5. Counterfeiting machines are illegal.
6. Drugs are illegal.
7. Weapons sold by Black Market Dealers and John Wick are illegal.
8. Throwing “bug bait” is illegal.
9. CP Disrespect is illegal.
10. Life threats are illegal.(To anyone)
11. Being beyond the lobby of the PD, including the second floor, and jail cells is AOS.
12. Drinking and selling alcohol outside in the streets is illegal
 Job spec.png 

(Section G)
Breaking Job Specific Rules counts as FailRP.


 Civilian.png 

General Civilian Rules
1. You may not participate in raids.
2. You may not mug.
3. You may not carjack/accept stolen vehicles.
4. You may not kidnap
5. You may not use a gun larger than a pistol (Excludes Civilians)
6. You may place hits (Excludes Hobos)


I. Hobo Rules
1. You may steal.
2. You may sell stolen items.
3. You may build small shacks to live in. (You may only have minor prop climb. It's up to the discretion staff member what "Minor" means.)
4. You may build gambling contraptions and have them accessible to the public.
5. You may not build your shack in front of someone's entrance in a way that it blocks the way in.
6. You may not use a weapon larger than a handgun.
7. You may not own money printers.
8. Do not spam the bugbait SWEP at all.
9. You are allowed to play music through your mic. However, if an staff member tells you to stop, you must stop. You may be killed if you micspam after a player has warned you to stop in advert chat three times to stop spamming. They must wait 5 seconds between adverting
10. You may not place hits.
11. You may not own any real world and/or fading doors.
12. You may build a "Suicide Box". However, it must be clearly marked above it so it can be read from all angles.
II. Citizen Rules
1. You may not steal.
2. You may not sell/accept stolen items.
3. You may set a custom job, as long as it is appropriate and is allowed by the rules. Some of these custom jobs will be listed as a subsection under the citizen rules if needed. You may not set your custom job to any job that already exists, or any variation thereof.
4. You are allowed to play music through your mic. In public, if someone tells you to stop you must comply. However you do not have to stop if it is in your own base. You cannot be killed for mic spamming in your own base.
5. You may not build in public.
III. Musician Rules
1. You may not steal.
2. You may not sell/accept stolen items.
3. You may sell access to your piano.
4. Do not place your piano in the air or in otherwise unrealistic locations.
5. If a player refuses to get off your piano you may request that the player is kicked.(or call a demote if staff are not on)
6. You may play anywhere excluding bases (unless the owner gives permission) and public streets.
7. You may not block a natural pathway.
8. Your piano is considered a prop and needs to comply to prop related rules.
IV. Radio Broadcaster Rules
1. You may not steal.
2. You may not sell/accept stolen items.
3. You may only group or base with other civilian jobs.
4. Follows all general civilian rules.
5. You may only group or base with other civilian jobs.
6. Your Radio Tower  is considered a prop and must follow all prop rules
Extended Worker rules (Separate section)
General Worker Rules
1. You may not mug.
2. You may not steal.
3. You may not participate in raids.
4. You may place hits.
5. You may not sell/accept stolen items.
6. You may use a gun of any size
I. Drug Manufacturer Rules
1. You may assist in carjacks, You may accept stolen vehicles.
2. Is considered a criminal and can and must only base with other criminals
II. Bartender
1. Selling and consuming beer outside is illegal and is arrestable


 Government.png 



 General Government Rules
1. If the mayor's gives you an order you must carry out those orders to the best of your ability. If you choose to ignore these orders you can be demoted if the mayor chooses to have you removed from your position.
2. You may ignore any laws that forbid weapons of any kind set forth by the mayor. You still cannot purchase BMD items, but you may still use them.
3. You may not kill Gang Members on sight unless both sides have agreed to War. (See War)
4. You may not mug.
5. You must always attempt to arrest a non-life threatening criminal before using lethal force. This includes during a police raid.(AOS over KOS)
6. You may not steal, but you can confiscate illegal items. If corrupt.
7. You may take money from printers before destroying them.




I. Civil Protection & SWAT Rules
1. You may participate in Police Raids in order to arrest criminals or seize illegal entities.
2. You may build only publicly, in front of tunnels, to create checkpoint. If there is a Mayor, the checkpoint must be sanctioned by him.
3. You are allowed to want people who run through a checkpoint
4. You may accept stolen items to return them to the rightful owner.
5. You may accept stolen vehicles to return them to their rightful owner.
6. You may place hits if you’re corrupt.
7. Mayor/CP Chief is the only person who can accept bail regardless of playstyle.
8. You must have a valid RP reason to weapon check a player.
9. You must inform players of weapon checks at checkpoints and government facilities with a sign unless pure.
10. You must have a valid RP reason to arrest a player.
11. You may not rush a player with cuffs when they are an immediate threat to you or others. You must kill them.
12. You may not taze a player who is shooting at you, or another player. You may taze a player that is running away from you, or punching you.
13. You may arrest players who are in possession of weapons sold by the Black Market Dealer or John wick
14. You may not enter a player's base without written consent or search warrant, unless you can see the illegal goods before entering the base or there is probable cause (player committed/is committing illegal acts such as murder)
15. As a corrupt officer, you may perform a corrupt raid once every fifteen minutes. This allows you to search a building that you are unsure about. You must state the reason for your warrant as "Corrupt". You may only perform a corrupt raid if there is a mayor. If the Mayor is not corrupt, submitting a warrant for this reason is a valid RP reason for the mayor to demote you if he so chooses. You may only perform a corrupt raid if you are a corrupt member.
16. During a police raid, you must always attempt to use your battering ram on the intended fading props you may also battering ram fading windows. You may not battering ram frozen props. Accidents may occur, unfrozen props must not be abused
17. If a player calls for an arrest reason you must provide one using /ad chat
18. During a lockdown you MUST  give players a warning of at least 10 seconds before arresting either via Text or Voice chat.
19. When a player is resisting arrest, you must make advert warnings for them to stop resisting before you may fire on them. You must give them 10 seconds to stop starting from the advert was called
II. Civil Protection Chief Rules
1. Must follow CP / SWAT rules
2. When no mayor is present the CP Chief is the ONLY class in the government allowed to accept wars.
3. When no mayor is present the CP Chief is allowed to demote any government official under his power if there is a real RP reason.
4. The CP Chief does not have power over custom classes.
5. The CP Chief has direct control over the SWAT and cp.


III. Mayor Rules
1. You may not participate in raids you may spectate but still may be killed.
2. You may not mug.
3. You may not steal.
4. You may accept stolen items to return them to the rightful owner.
5. You may accept stolen vehicles to return them to their rightful owner.
6. You may place hits if you’re corrupt.
7. You may not use any weapons larger than a pistol.
8. You must have a valid reason for starting a lockdown.
9. You must have a valid reason for issuing or accepting a search or arrest warrant.
10. You may not outlaw the ownership of handguns.
11. You may not create laws that go against the default laws.
12. You may not create ridiculous laws. [Jaywalking laws are prohibited]
13. You may not kill Gang Members on sight unless both sides have agreed to War. (See War Rules)
14. The Mayor may demote any government official for a good RP reason.
15. In all cases every government member must listen to you, the mayor, if any member of the government chooses to ignore your orders, as long as they work within the confines of the rules stated in the MOTD and the RP experience of the time, you may have the government offender demoted from his position.
16. As a mayor, you may not make anyone above the law, even if you are corrupt.
17. You may only afk/hide in the pd if you are seen to be hiding/afking/basing anywhere else you will be kicked
18. As a mayor, at least one of your law boards must be placed above the PD entrance. It must be clearly visible, and hung so that it can be properly read (not upside down, sideways, or backwards).
IV. Mayor’s Secretary
1. You may not participate in raids you may spectate but you still may be killed.
2. You may accept stolen items to return them to the rightful owner.
3. You may accept stolen vehicles to return them to their rightful owner.
4. You may place hits.
5. You may place hits for the mayor if he is corrupt.
6. You must follow orders from the mayor to the best of your ability.
7. You may not use any weapons larger than a pistol.


V. Mayor's Bodyguard Rules
1. You may not participate in raids. Your job is to defend the Mayor, not conduct routine police work.
2. You may accept stolen items to give to the Mayor.
3. You may accept stolen vehicles to return them to their rightful owner.
4. You may place hits if you’re corrupt.
5. If the mayor is Corrupt, you must also be Corrupt.
6. You may only group or base with the Mayor, and must remain with him at all times.
7. You must have a valid RP reason to weapon check a player.
8. You must have a valid RP reason to arrest a player.
9. You may not rush a player with the handcuffs while they are shooting at you.


 Merchant.png 



General Merchant Rules
1. You may not mug
2. You may not steal (excludes BMD)
3. You may not kidnap
4. You may not betray your employer.
5. You may not carjack/accept stolen vehicles.
6. You may not deny your services to individual players, but you can deny your services for a valid RP reason. You may also charge for your services
7. You may not scam
8. You may place hits (excludes all hitmen)


I. Guard Rules
1. Activities you may only assist in
* Raiding
* Mugging
* Stealing
* Carjacking
* Kidnapping
If your employer dies you may not continue these actions
1. You may not sell stolen items. You can accept stolen items for your employer if his job allows him to accept stolen items.
2. You may only base with your boss, not alone.
3. You must to do "/job [Boss's Name] Guard" if you have been hired to protect someone's base, shop, or possessions.
II. Medic Rules
1. Activities you may only assist in (You may NOT directly assist in raids. Meaning you may only stay back and heal. You will be considered a member of the raiding party, and can be arrested or killed.)
* Raiding
* Mugging
* Stealing
* Carjacking
* Kidnapping
If your employer dies you may not continue these actions
1. You may not sell/accept stolen items.
2. Once your employer dies in the raid, you must end the assist and leave the raid.
3. You may NOT use any weapon larger than a pistol.
4. You may build small "express" shops in public. This shop must be on the sidewalk and may not restrict access to roads, doors, or atms.
III. Private Investigator
1. You must be hired. You can be hired by corrupt police, as well as criminals.
2. Activities you may only assist in
* Raiding
* Stealing
* Carjacking
If your employer dies you may not continue these actions
1. You may not sell stolen items.
IV. Gun Dealer
1. You may not participate in raids.
2. You may not sell/accept stolen items.
3. You must set up a store where you sell items available to the public.
4. You may only sell items in your store or automatic shop.
5. You may build small "express" shops in public. This shop must be on the sidewalk and may not restrict access to roads, doors, or atms.
6. You may not base with criminal classes.
7. You may not sell your goods lower than the base price specified in the F4 menu.
V. Professor
1. You may not participate in raids.
2. You may not sell/accept stolen items.
3. You may not use a weapon larger than a pistol.
4. You may only sell items in your store or automatic shop.
5. You may build small "express" shops in public. This shop must be on the sidewalk and may not restrict access to roads, doors, or atms.
6. You may not sell your goods lower than the base price specified in the F4 menu.
7. You may not base with criminal classes.
VI. Utility Merchant Rules
1. You may not participate in raids.
2. You may not sell/accept stolen items.
3. You must set up a store where you sell items available to the public.
4. You may only sell items in your store or automatic shop.
5. You may build small "express" shops in public. This shop must be on the sidewalk and may not restrict access to roads, doors, or atms.
6. You may not base with criminal classes.
7. You may not sell your goods lower than the base price specified in the F4 menu.
VII. War Medic Rules
1. Activities you may only assist in
* Raiding
* Mugging
* Stealing
* Carjacking
* Kidnapping
If your employer dies you may not continue these actions


1. You may not sell stolen items. You can accept stolen items for your employer if his job allows him to accept stolen items.
2. You may only base with your boss, not alone.
3. You must to do "/job [Boss's Name] War Medic" if you have been hired to protect someone's base, shop, or possessions.
4. The War Medic is NOT a Government Class, but can be hired by government classes.


VIII. Black Market Dealer Rules
1. You may participate/assist in raids. (You may not lead them).
2. Activities you may only assist in
* Raiding
* Carjacking
* Kidnapping
If your LEADER dies you may not continue these actions
1. You may steal.
2. You may sell/accept stolen items.
3. You may accept stolen vehicles.
4. You may not have a shop. You must complete trades in secret.
5. You may be arrested for selling items


IX. Hitman Rules
1. You may only participate in raids if you know your target is inside the base. You may not lead a raid.
2. You may not sell/accept stolen items.
3. You may only kill people you have been paid to kill, except when defending yourself or your group.
4. You may not accept hits on Hobos.
5. You must have a valid reason to accept hits.
6. You must wait 20 minutes between accepting hits ON THE SAME PERSON. There is no wait time between hits on different people
7. You may not ask/tell other players to place hits on specific people or groups.
8. It is inexcusable to forget the name and reason of who placed the hit you took out. If you "forget" you will receive a warning for "Random Deathmatch | Fail RP as a Hitman"
9. Hit-men and hit-men-related classes are only allowed to base with other Hit-men and hit-men-related classes.
X. Mercenary
1. You may participate in raids.
2. You may not sell/accept stolen items.
3. You may only kill people you have been paid to kill, except when defending yourself or your group or raiding.
4. You may not accept hits on Hobos.
5. You must have a valid  RP reason to accept hits.
6. You must wait 20 minutes between accepting hits ON THE SAME PERSON. You must wait five minutes before accepting another hit.
7. You may not ask/tell other players to place hits on specific people or groups.
8. It is inexcusable to forget the name and reason of who placed the hit you took out. If you "forget" you will receive a warning for "Random Deathmatch | Fail RP as a Hitman"
9. You may base with other criminal classes.
10. In order to accept a hit on a player, there must be a valid RP reason. This reason must have a legitimate RP value.
 Crim.png 

General Criminal Rules
1. You may mug
2. You may steal
3. You may kidnap
4. You may Lead and assist in raids
5. You may place hits
6. You may Carjack/accept stolen vehicles
7. You may base with other criminal classes (excludes rival gangs)
8. You may sell/accept stolen items.(excludes gangster and gang leader)


I. Gangster & Gang Leader Rules
1. You may not sell stolen goods, but you can accept them.
2. You may participate in Wars. (See War Rules)
3. You may not kill the other Gang Members or the CP on sight unless both sides have agreed to War. (See War Rules)
4. When a mob boss is in power all gangsters under the same gang must base with the mob boss.
5. During this time gangsters may not raid, mug, or kidnap without their mob boss present. During this time you may still roam the map and steal loose items.
6. As a Mob Boss you may tell members of your gang certain things to do. These request/demands may not be too silly and or ridiculous. You must be fair with you request/demands. (Changing job name, buying weapons/armor fair) (Telling your members to do silly things such as giving all your money to you/members, kill everyone, target and harass 1 player, etc).
7. The Mob Boss of any of the gangs is allowed to demote any of his members if they do not abide by his rules or demands. You MUST listen to your mob boss!
8. Mob Bosses may own 2 different buildings in their claimed area. However they must follow fading door limits. As a Mob Boss  you may not block off streets, roads, or parking lots.


II. Thug/Hacker/Thief & Professional Thief Rules/Retired War Veteran Rules
1. Refer to general rules